Let’s explore enums in more detail.
So, because an enum is a class, it can
have all the members a class can have,
such as: fields, methods, constructors
[but constructors here can only have
private or package-private modifiers],
also inner classes, interfaces, and
nested enums can be part of an enum.
So, let's start looking
at some of this.
What I'm going to do is create a new
class in our Fundamentals project.
Let's call this one
ComplexEnumExample.
All right, so that's the
code that I've added.
You can see that I’ve still
got an enum which represents
the days of the week.
This time, I've called it weekdays.
I've followed each enum constant
with a parentheses encased list
of values, which should match
the arguments on one of the
constructors defined and noting
that I have got constructors there.
By getting back to my list, I've
entered the list of constants
with a semicolon on line 17 there.
Now, this is important.
This is required if your enum
class contains additional code
or members, such as: fields,
constructors, methods, etc.
So, moving down, I've actually
defined two fields, lines 20 and
21, abbreviation, and description
which our constructor or constructors
populate assigning a default
value to the description field.
And we can see the two
constructors there.
And speaking of those two
constructors, you can see that
they accept the parameters passed
after the constant declarations,
and you can see those up there
being used on lines 11 through 17.
Note here that different constants
can use different constructors
and we're doing that, some of them
have got two arguments there, and
some of them are only using one.
As you can see on line 16, Friday's
using the single argument constructor
while all the other days are using
the two-argument constructor.
And scrolling down to the
bottom, we've got our public
class ComplexEnumExample, and
that's just looping through the
enum values and accessing the
attributes, abbreviation, and
description on each enum constant.
All right, so let's run the code.
And you can see that it's produced
a similar result from the last
video, but the details of the
enum constants are stored with the
enum constants themselves using
constructors and enum attributes.
All right, so the next thing I want
to do now is I want to add a method
to the weekdays, EnumBody, inserting
some code which I’m about to paste in.
Now, the code we're pasting in
it should be after the second
constructor here on line 31.
I'm going to paste that in.
And this method of looking
at it just prints additional
text about the enum constant.
Now, I want to call this method
I’ve created print type in the main
method for each constant, so I need
to change the main method to do that.
So, what I'm going to do is
just paste in some new code to
replace this existing for loop.
So, you can see what we're doing
now, we've changed the for loop
slightly, but we're also now executing
the method that we've created
print type on line 54 on the enum.
All right, so let's run this.
Okay, and there we go.
All right, so let's end the
video here for this one.
In the next video, what I want to
do is start looking at creating
class bodies for enum constants.
See you in the next video.